ffi-swig-generator
    by Andrea Fazzi
    http://github.com/remogatto/ffi-swig-generator/tree/master

== DESCRIPTION:

ffi-swig-generator is a ruby-ffi wrapper code generator based on SWIG
interface files.

ffi-swig-generator is able to traverse a XML parse tree file generated
by the +swig+ command and to produce a ruby-ffi interface file from
it.

ffi-swig-generator is shipped with a command line tool (ffi-gen) and a rake
task that automates the code generation process.

ffi-swig-generator XML capabilities are provided by nokogiri.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* The program is able to generate:
  * all C native types
  * #define constants
  * typedefs
  * struct, union, array and enum types
  * callbacks (pointers to functions) 
* Naive indentation of the generated code

== SYNOPSIS:

From command line:

  ffi-gen mylib.xml mylib.rb

From a Rakefile:

  require 'ffi-swig-generator'
  FFI::Generator::Task.new :input_fn => 'my_interface_dir/*.i' output_dir => 'my_output_dir'

== REQUIREMENTS:

* rake >= 0.8.3
* nokogiri >= 1.1.1
* swig >= 1.3

== DOWNLOAD/INSTALL:

To download and install from rubygems:

  [sudo] gem install ffi-swig-generator

To download the develpment trunk:

  hg clone http://kenai.com/hg/ruby-ffi~swig-generator 

== EXAMPLES:

See the examples in examples/ folder.

libc.i is an interface file containing some excerpt of libc functions.

wiiuse.i is a enough complex example of a C header file interface. It
reproduces the content of wiiuse.h, the header file of the wiiuse
library. wiiuse is a C library that handles the connection with
Nintendo Wiimote devices. The interface file is almost a mere
copy/paste from the original header file. See
http://github.com/remogatto/ffi-wiiuse an updated revision of
ffi-wiiuse library.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Andrea Fazzi

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
